- **NIST 800 series**: Not a framework in itself so much as a series of documents defining security standards, policies, and procedures for the US government. While they are designed for federal agencies, they contain many useful guidelines for other organizations, and are available free of charge. Most prominently, SP 800-53 is a comprehensive catalog of security controls used by federal information systems, so is a valuable resource for choosing security controls.
- **NIST Risk Management Framework (RMF)**: A risk-management framework defined by SP 800-37, using the controls described in SP 800-53. It uses a six-step cyclical process to identify and manage risks, combining some risk-management flexibility with prescriptive details. RMF compliance is mandatory for US federal government agencies, but it has been adopted by many other public and private organizations.
- **NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF)**: A framework containing voluntary guidelines for private sector organizations in the United States, particularly in critical infrastructure. It is shorter and higher-level than RMF, focusing on standard guidelines and language for cybersecurity, and based on industry standards and best practices. It does not contain detailed risk-management procedures or security controls, so you should use it in conjunction with RMF or another framework.
- **International Organization for Standardization (ISO) frameworks**: The ISO 27000 series is a broad risk-management framework containing information security guidelines for all sorts of organizations. It’s comprehensive, including specific documents for individual security areas. The ISO 31000 series is an even broader risk-management framework that applies to all aspects of organizational risks and their effects on business goals. It is not limited to information systems, but it uses standards in alignment with the 27000 series. Compared to the 27000 series or RMF, it is more focused on organizational leadership and less on informing cybersecurity decisions.
- **CIS Critical Security Controls for Effective Cyber Defense (CIS CSC)**: A set of 20 best practice guidelines for general cybersecurity, initially developed by the SANS Institute. Also known as the CIS 20 or the SANS Top 20. Each control on the list defines a type of action you can use to reduce cybersecurity vulnerabilities. Each control is written in language that's understandable to typical IT personnel and is designed to be applied primarily by automated processes to reduce labor costs. The CSC is designed to map to the NIST CSF, making it a useful tool in implementing that framework.
- **Cloud Security Alliance Cloud Controls Matrix (CSA CCM)**: A security framework that details 133 security controls for cloud services. It is structured into 16 domains that cover all aspects of operating as a cloud service provider. They map directly to the CSA’s Enterprise Reference Architecture (ERA) but can be applied to cloud services in general. The CCM is useful for cloud providers to secure their services and for customers to assess security risks related to a cloud provider.
- **Statement on Standards for Attestation Engagements (SSAE)**: An auditing standard published by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). It can be applied to any subject matter but is intended to ensure accurate, complete, and fair financial reporting. It pays particular focus to operational controls on informational systems used for financial reporting and is valuable for SOX compliance.
- **Control Objectives for Information and Related Technologies (COBIT)**: A framework published by ISACA, an IT professional association. The most recent version is COBIT 5, which is a popular framework for complying with Sarbanes-Oxley rules.
- **Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL)**: A framework published by AXELOS, a joint venture of the UK government and Capita plc. Compared to similar frameworks such as COBIT, ITIL is more focused on the service aspect of IT, providing more detail in specific implementation but less on underlying principles.