- **Framework**: A program or blueprint that documents the overall processes you need to design policies achieving specific security needs. A good framework is designed and maintained by a certification body or standards organization drawing from the practices and experiences of organizations with similar needs. It may include a wide variety of more specific documents, or it might just be a structure for you to develop your own.
- **Policy**: A statement describing how the organization is to be run. A policy reflects organizational intent and goals, and generally is written for broad audiences rather than strictly technical personnel. Compliance with policies is mandatory for all employees or users; any exceptions defining when policies should be disregarded must be documented as policies. “User accounts must be protected by strong passwords” might be found in a policy.
- **Standard**: A definition of specific methodologies or requirements needed to satisfy policies. Standards are mandatory but tend to have a more technical and specific focus than policies. “Passwords must be at least eight characters long and contain letters, numbers, and special characters” might be found in a standard.
- **Guideline**: Descriptions of best practices or recommendations for achieving a specific policy goal. In theory, guidelines are optional and leave room for interpretation. In practice, just how “optional” a given guideline is can vary. Advice on how to design a strong password might be found in a guideline.
- **Benchmark**: A checklist of potential vulnerabilities in a piece of software along with configuration settings you can use to mitigate them. Also known as a secure configuration guide. A benchmark might be for a particular hardware or software product. It might also be for a generic type instead of a specific product. A benchmark for Windows Server would tell you to make sure domain policies are set to require eight-character complex passwords.
- **Procedures**: Specific and ordered instructions for complying with a particular element of a policy or standard. Procedures are mandatory and written for the people who perform them. In general, a procedure represents a short-duration task, while long tasks are called processes and contain multiple procedures. The steps needed to change or reset a password would be written as a procedure.
- **Controls**: Any safeguard or countermeasure that is designed to reduce security risks. Security policies and procedures themselves are controls, but when you see “control” used as a contrasting term, it generally means a physical or technological tool that enforces policy goals. The password-protected login system itself is a technical control, as is the password complexity enforcement that rejects new passwords if they don’t meet the standard.