Because security is a community effort, there are all sorts of organizations that help to face threats.

- The **Center for Internet Security (CIS)** is a non-profit organization formed by a lot of commercial, academic, and government organizations. Their mission is to identify, develop, and promote best practices in cybersecurity. They develop security benchmarks and assessment tools for a wide variety of operating systems and network applications.
- The **Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE)** is a professional association of people in many disciplines. THeir mission is to advance technological innovation of all sorts, and they publish standards such as IEEE 802.1X and Ethernet.
- The **Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)** is an open standards organization under the management of the internet society (ISOC). They develop common internet protocols by consensus, starting as **Request For Comments** (RFC) documents, advancing throught the process to become a **Proposed Standard**, and eventually becoming an **Internet Standard**.
- The **International Organization for Standardization (ISO)** is an international organization made up of over 160 member nations. They standardize everything from the OSI model to twist direction.
- The **Internet Society (ISOC)** is the parent organization of the IETF and other organizations. It focuses on providing organizing conferences, seminars, and training services for its member organizations.
- The **International Telecommunication Union (ITU)** is a UN agency charged with global tasks relating to telecommunications. It allocates shared global use of the radio spectrum, coordinates national governments in assigning satellite orbits, and promotes global technical standards related to networking and communication.
- The **National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)** is a US government agency charged with developng and supporting standards used by other government organizations. It primarily promotes standards for the US government but they are frequently used by others with similar technology needs.
- The **National Security Agency (NSA)** is a US intelligence agency responsible for information gathering, codebreaking, and codemaking. They develop cryptographic standards and secure government information against attack. It had a role in developing many cryptographic standards such as AES, DES, and SHA.
- The **Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP)** is an international non-profit organization founded to further the state of web application security. It provides freely available guidelines, articles, software tools, and other resources. They have a well-known top-ten list of common web application vulnerabilities.
- The **World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)** is a standards organization founded to develop and maintain interoperable standards for the World Wide Web used by web browsers, servers, and other technologies. This includes HTML, XML, CSS, and many others used for web-based communications.